# NgnBox
ngn_final_project

Box: A Dropbox-like file hosting service

Link: http://ngnbox-env.elasticbeanstalk.com/S3Servlet


In this project, we did a cloud-based file hosting system with some cool functions. We used popular Bootstrap to build our frontend framework and AWS S3 as our cloud server, other language or techniques we used are HTML5, CSS, Javascript and Jquery for frontend; Java Servlet, Amazon S3/RDS for backend. 
Our principle of UI design is simple and clean, just like our project, which is simple and efficient. For the UI design part, on first page, we have sign-in, sign-up buttons which allow users to easily enter their own main file-manage site; on the second main page, we can Choose, Upload and Delete files, and we can also see the filename and file modify time. The uploading speed is indeed fast, also, our system can recognize files with the same name, and it will stop uploading the file with a notice to users. Users can sign-out the system, and when they sign back in, all the files will still be here peacefully. 

We test our project so many times in several possible ways that might cause problems. As what we expected, the system was super stable and smooth. Let’s see how exactly what we did on both frontend and backend.  


Backend

The backend of our web application is based on Java Servlet framework. The front-end and back-end communicate with each other by using HTTP Post/Get. HTTP Post is mainly used to process the client’s UPLOAD action. HTTP Get is targeted at behaviours like:authentication(login), signup, delete and download.

Amazon S3 Programming:
All files whatever text or pictures will be saved in Amazon S3. AWS provides us with different API to achieve file upload/download/delete.
Upload: Whenever the backend receives a file from frontend. It will recognize the “username” and “filename” then it will connect to S3, create a corresponding path and upload the file to S3 storage.
Download: When the client sends a download request, our backend program will firstly get the this file’s link at S3 then redirect the user to this link. That’s to say, clients will do nothing but click on the file hyperlink  and our application will download it automatically.
Delete: When the client sends a delete request. Backend will delete it from S3 and such file records will not be showed at webpage as well.

JDBC Programming:

Our database is also deployed Amazon RDS. There are two tables in our database. One is named “info” which which records username-password pair. Another one is named “info” which have three columns: username, filename, timestamp. We create this table because it will be more efficient for us to manage user’s files. So whenever the client upload/download/delete file, we will definitely change values of our database.In addition, we use Java Database Connectivity to handle all MySQL operations.

Front-End

The front-end of this project is done by using HTML5, CSS and Javascript, as well as Jquery and Bootstrap. There are 3 pages in our project: Welcome page (Sign in), Sign up page and File list page. All the pages’ style were built based on Bootstrap framework. 

When the user enter his credentials in the login page, the front end will use Jquery to send the user name and the password to the backend and get response from backend which will verify the credentials. If the verification fails, the user will be warned by a pop up window generated by Javascript that the credentials are not correct, the form (username field and password field) will be refreshed. 

When the user sign up for a new account, signup.jsp will use Jquery to check whether the two passwords the user typed match each other. If matches, the frontend will send the newly created username and password and the backend will register a new entry.

When the user successfully uploaded a file, the insertRow Javascript function will be triggered and a new row in the list table will be added. If this file’s name the same as an already existing file under this user’s folder, then this upload will be aborted and the user will be notified by an alert.

When a user is logged in and closed the tab, he can still access the dropbox.jsp page without logging in again, because his credentials are stored locally in localStorage in his browser.

